# Migrating to version 0.10.x (from 0.9.x)

## Server-side

`EntityMap<T>` has been removed. If you're using `EntityMap<T>` to describe a map of entities, you should use the plain TypeScript alternative now. e.g. Replace "`EntityMap<Player>`" with "`{[id: string]: Player}`", or migrate to the new serializer.

### New default serializer

Colyseus 0.10 has introduced a new serialization method ([`SchemaSerializer`](/state/schema/)). Even though it's recommened to use the new serializer, you can continue using the previous one ([`FossilDeltaSerializer`](/state/fossil-delta/)).

#### I want to continue using the previous serializer

No problem, check below how to continue using the previous serializer using TypeScript or plain JavaScript.

```javascript fct_label="TypeScript"
import { Room, FossilDeltaSerializer, serialize } from "colyseus";

@serialize(FossilDeltaSerializer)
class MyRoom extends Room {
    // your room definition
}
```

```javascript fct_label="JavaScript"
const colyseus = require('colyseus');

class MyRoom extends colyseus.Room {
    // your room definition
}
colyseus.serialize(colyseus.FossilDeltaSerializer)(MyRoom);
```

#### I want to migrate to the new serializer

Great, hopefully you won't have to make many changes in your project. In the client-side, the way to listen for state patches has changed slightly.

- See [how to use the new `SchemaSerializer` in the server-side](/state/schema/#server-side).
- See [how to listen for changes in the state using `SchemaSerializer`](/state/schema/#client-side).

## Client-side

### colyseus-unity3d

It's highly recommended to migrate to the new schema serializer. See how to [generate the schema in the client-side](/state/schema/#client-side-schema-generation) based on the definitions from the server.

- `client.id` has been renamed to `client.Id`
- `room.id` has been renamed to `room.Id`
- `room.name` has been renamed to `room.Name`
- `room.sessionId` has been renamed to `room.SessionId`
- `room.state` has been renamed to `room.State`
- `e.message` has been renamed to `e.Message` (on `MessageEventArgs` and `ErrorEventArgs`)
- `Room<T>` needs to provide the generic type for state holder
    - when using Fossil Delta, it's `Room<IndexedDictionary<string, object>>`
    - when using Schema it's `Room<YourStateClass>`
- `RoomUpdateEventArgs` has been renamed to `StateChangeEventArgs<T>`
    - `T` is `IndexedDictionary<string, object>` when using Fossil Delta
    - `T` is `YourStateClass` when using Schema.
    - `e.state` has been renamed to `e.State`
