# Migrating to version 0.11.x (from 0.10.x)

The version `0.11` improves match-making and scalability, and introduces breaking changes in both client-side and server-side.

## Client-side

### `client.id` has been removed!

If you're using `client.id` in the client-side, you should replace it with `room.sessionId`.

### New match-making methods available in the client-side!

A few methods have been added to the client-side allowing to explicitly create rooms or join them.

- `joinOrCreate(roomName, options)` - joins or creates a room by name (previously known as `join()`)
- `create(roomName, options)` - only creates new rooms
- `join(roomName, options)` - only joins existing rooms by name
- `joinById(roomId, options)` - only joins existing rooms by id
- `reconnect(roomId, sessionId)` - re-establish a previously lost connection (previously known as `rejoin()`)

Also, the `Room` instance is not returned immediatelly in the client-side. A promise is returned instead, and it is fulfilled whenever the `onJoin()` has finished successfully.

Replace your existing `client.join()` calls with its new `client.joinOrCreate()`:

```typescript fct_label="JavaScript"
client.joinOrCreate("battle", {/* options */}).then(room => {
  console.log("joined successfully", room);
}).catch(e => {
  console.error("join error", e);
});
```

```csharp fct_label="C#"
try {
  Room<YourStateClass> room = await client.JoinOrCreate<YourStateClass>("battle", /* Dictionary of options */);
  Debug.Log("joined successfully");

} catch (ex) {
  Debug.Log("join error");
  Debug.Log(ex.Message);
}
```

```lua fct_label="lua"
client:join_or_create("battle", {--[[options]]}, function(err, room)
  if (err ~= nil) then
    print("join error: " .. err)
    return
  end

  print("joined successfully")
end)
```

```haxe fct_label="Haxe"
client.joinOrCreate("battle", [/* options */], YourStateClass, function(err, room) {
  if (err != null) {
    trace("join error: " + err);
    return;
  }

  trace("joined successfully");
});
```

```cpp fct_label="C++"
client->joinOrCreate<YourStateClass>("battle", {/* options */}, [=](std::string err, Room<State>* room) {
  if (err != "") {
    std::cout << "join error: " << err << std::endl;
    return;
  }

  std::cout << "joined successfully" << std::endl;
});
```

!!! Warning "Lua, Haxe and C++"
    In languages that doesn't provide an `async` mechanism out of the box, a callback is expected as last argument for the matchmaking functions. The callback gets invoked whenever the `onJoin()` has been finished successfully.

### `room.onJoin` is not necessary anymore in the client-side

The `room.onJoin` is now only used internally. When the promise (or callback) fulfils returning the `room` instance, it has already been joined successfully.

### The `reconnect()` now expects the room id instead of room name.

Previously, the `rejoin()` method accepted the room **name** and sessionId. Now, with `reconnect()` you should pass the room id instead of the room name:

```typescript
client.reconnect(roomId, sessionId).then(room => {/* ... */});
```

### JavaScript/TypeScript: Signals API has changed slighly

The room signals are `onLeave`, `onStateChange`, `onMessage` and `onError`.

- Use `onStateChange(callback)` instead of `onStateChange.add(callback)`
- Use `onStateChange.once(callback)` instead of `onStateChange.addOnce(callback)`

### C#/Unity

The `sender` object has been removed from all Schema callbacks and events.

#### Schema callbacks API has changed slighly

- Use `players.OnAdd += (Player player, string key) => {}`.
- Use `players.OnRemove += (Player player, string key) => {}`.
- ... and so on!

#### Events API has changed slighly

The events are `onLeave`, `onStateChange`, `onMessage` and `onError`.

- No need to use `client.Connect()` and `room.ReadyToConnect()` / `room.Connect()` anymore.
- Use `onStateChange += (State state, bool isFirstState) => {}` instead of `onStateChange += (sender, e) => {}`
- Use `onMessage += (object message) => {}` instead of `onMessage += (sender, e) => {}`
- Use `onLeave += (int code) => {}` instead of `onLeave += (sender, e) => {}`
- Use `onError += (string message) => {}` instead of `onError += (sender, e) => {}`


## Server-side

### Usage with `express`

Before creating the `Colyseus.Server` instance, you'll need to:

- use the `express.json()` middleware
- use the `cors()` middleware (_if you're testing server/client from different port or domain_)
- pass both `server` and `express` to the `Colyseus.Server` constructor.

```typescript fct_label="TypeScript"
import http from "http";
import express from "express";
import cors from "cors";
import { Server } from "colyseus";

const app = express();

app.use(cors());
app.use(express.json());

const server = http.createServer(app);
const gameServer = new Server({
  server: server,
  express: app,
});
```

```javascript fct_label="JavaScript"
const http = require("http");
const express = require("express");
const cors = require("cors");
const colyseus = require("colyseus");

const app = express();

app.use(cors());
app.use(express.json());

const server = http.createServer(app);
const gameServer = new colyseus.Server({
  server: server,
  express: app,
});
```

### `gameServer.register` has been renamed to `gameServer.define`

### `onInit(options)` has been renamed to `onCreate(options)`

Replace your `onInit(options)` method in your room with `onCreate(options)`.

### `onAuth(options)` is now `onAuth(client, options)`

Replace your `onAuth(options)` method in your room with `onAuth(client, options)`.

### `client.id` is now an alias to `client.sessionId`

As the `client.id` has been removed from the client-side, it is now just an alias to `client.sessionId` (available in the client-side as `room.sessionId`).

The `client.id` was not a reliable source to identify unique users. If you need an efficient way to determine if the user is the same in multiple browser tabs, consider using some form of authentication. The anonymous authentication from [@colyseus/social](/authentication/#anonymous) can serve this purpose very well.

### The `requestJoin()` method has been deprecated.

Instead of using `requestJoin()` to determine wheter a player is allowed to join a room, you should use matchmaking filters for your defined rooms.

Take this example of using `requestJoin()` from version `0.10`, and how to translate it to `0.11`:

```typescript
// version 0.10
class MyRoom extends Room {
  onInit(options) {
    this.progress = options.progress;
  }

  requestJoin(options, isNew) {
    return this.progress === options.progress;
  }
}
```

You can have the same behaviour by defining a `progress` filter when defining your room. The `requestJoin()` method should be removed.

```typescript
// version 0.11
gameServer
  .define("dungeon", DungeonRoom)
  .filterBy(['progress']);
```

### Avoid using `this.clients` inside `onJoin()` or `onAuth()`

The `client` instance will be automatically added to the `this.clients` list **only after** `onJoin()` has been completed.

If you have a piece of code like this:

```javascript
onJoin(client, options) {
  if (this.clients.length === 2) {
    // do something!
  }
}
```

It's encouraged to replace with something else, like this:

```javascript
onJoin(client, options) {
  this.state.players[client.sessionId] = new Player(/*...*/);
  if (Object.keys(this.state.players).length === 2) {
    // do something!
  }
}

onLeave(client, options) {
  delete this.state.players[client.sessionId];
}
```
